# Entry Automation


This was an interesting challenge to automate entries which can be broadly applied to many different tasks/roles. I will explain this as generally as possible so the viewer can modify the code to fit their task. The key issue was that there was no (free) explicit connection to the 3rd party software and Excel to simplify the data transfer task. The task of recording sales comes down to just manually transferring numbers - after the data is tailored and consistent with other specific numbers. Fortunately, after asking the right question and some research, I stumbled on the pyautogui module that allows you to program instructions for the mouse and keyboard. Before doing anything, it's ideal to have in mind what the automation will look like when things are going smoothly. Now, I'll discuss my process.

I use the pandas package to access the excel file, wrangling the specific data by identifying it from the large spreadsheet with all the different stores. Then after doing so, I clean the data so its consistent with other values and will avoid errors(pop-up windows) during the transfer process. For example, the debit and credit values had to be balanced if off by 1 cent which required some changes to some specific values. After data is ready for entry, this is where the fun begins. I have the editor and 3rd party software(QBs:quickbooks) side by side and run the program to automatically click and type the correct things. There is surely a way to have a nicer UI(using PyQt) so any user can use it without fiddling/accessing with the code but this accomplished the task and was not required. 
